hi I'm James and I'm gonna show you how
we find exoplanets those are planets
around other stars
so we're on the island of la palma at
the minute which is in the Canary
Islands and here we have a transiting
exoplanet instrument that surveys a
large area of the sky so this is super
wasp and this is the Northern Hemisphere
insulation all right you're gonna show
me how you find these planets so this is
super wasps enclosure and in this part
is the computer room where we have all
of the computers that control the
telescope and push the data back to the
universities in the UK and in the other
room is the actual telescope itself so
this is superwash itself it is a
collection of eight cameras issues in a
wide field sports photography lens to
survey a large area sky looking for
planets which transit their star and as
the planet transits the star it causes a
slight dip in the brightness of the star
and this is the signature we look for
each camera looks at several hundred
thousand stars and but then we have a
large cluster of computers back in the
UK which reduces the data monitors the
brightness of each star individually and
I'm overtime you'll see the depth in the
star that has the planets these are
Canon 300 millimeter sports photography
lenses they got you see the guys at the
football matches with these huge lenses
for taking pictures of the stars of
football stars it's the same thing it's
Nate it starts off on its own
robotically and it will go around
surveying the field that it's been asked
to survey that night and it will Slough
to that position and take a few images
and then salute to the next position and
repeat the cycle all night and sometimes
we when we want very accurate photometry
we make it observe one field all night
so it stays on it just follows one
position all night taking lots and lots
of images so if we can go we can go in
here and I can show you what what
actually we see this is a one of the
planets discovered by Super Wars
this is was twelve so what we've got
here is a plot of the light from the
star over over time and you can see here
that the light is fairly constant and
then as the planet moves in front of the
star it blocks a portion of the light
just like you can see less light as my
hand passes in front of the
the lamp in front of us this signal can
be caused by lots of different objects
not always planets it can be a small
star or three stars moving in a
different orbit so we first moved to a
small telescope which can follow up this
single star and tell us whether it's a
planet or not and I can show you that
type of telescope now I here I'm going
to open up the dome for the for the
telescope next door the next step in the
process is to take a better light curve
of the object um now we have this it's a
slightly larger telescope which looks at
a smaller patch of sky and you do much
better photometry after this stage if it
still looks like a planetary signal we
can go again then to something slightly
larger again
so this this small telescope has only
been installed last it was only
installed last year and this our new 1
meter telescope is still being
commissioned at the minute and they will
run in an SEM mode of operation a super
wasp where no one will be here and it
will robotically observe all the targets
the super boss gives it
so with this telescope we plan to do
really really high precision photometry
in two colors so we can get a light
curve of the star of the planet
transiting hey at a red wavelength
another blue wavelength and this way you
can look for changes in the shape of the
transit and infer something about its
atmosphere and then for misdeeds as I
said before we would go to one of the
other telescopes like the knot and do
spectroscopy where you look for the
wobble that this planet puts on the star
as its orbiting